In this video
we're going to cover Throwing Exceptions with Mocks.
We may need to configure the mock to throw an exception.
Here's a possible use case.
We like to test how our code handles an exception
when it's thrown,
so we can basically set up the mock
to throw an exception for a given method call.
Here's a quick refresher
on this mock annotation test that we've been to developing.
We have a MockBean called ApplicationDao
and we also have the ApplicationService.
And remember the ApplicationService has a dependency
on the ApplicationDao.
And what we want to do here is modify this to mock the Dao
to throw a given exception.
Okay, so here's the new coding here
for throwing an exception.
So we have a test, throw an exception,
we go ahead and grab a Bean CollegeStudent
and then we set up our expectation,
so for a given method call we want to throw an exception.
Here I have when ApplicationDao checkNull
nullstudent then throw runtime exception.
So effectively here,
when this method checkNull is called
then we're going to throw an exception.
And then at the bottom we simply do an assertion.
So we assert that the exception was thrown,
just to make sure that, hey, once we make that method call
we want to confirm that a given exception was thrown.
Now, another thing that you can do
is you can make use of consecutive calls.
So you could tell the system,
hey for the first method call, throw an exception
but for all follow on calls, don't throw an exception.
And here's the coding.
When applicationDao checkNull
then throw new runtime exception.
What this does is that it says
for the first call, throw an exception.
Next we have, then return do not throw exception
second time.
Basically here for the consecutive calls
do not throw an exception, simply return a string.
That string message can be anything that you want
or it could be any object boolean, arraylist, whatever.
Whatever your given method call will return,
that's what you can return here.
So the string here could be really anything
or any type of object.
But the key here is that the first call to this method
will throw an exception
and then all follow on calls will not throw an exception,
or will simply return an object.
Now let's take a look at our assertions here.
So far, assert for the first call, we make a check.
We assert throws, runtime exception
because we know that first call's going to throw an exception.
And then for the follow on calls,
like in this case the second call,
then we simply assert that the return value here
was a given strength.
And that's basically it.
All righty, so these some really good examples here.
Let's go ahead and move to the next video
and let's start writing some code.